README.md, before:

## Front end for Samagra | Transforming Governance.

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/5db5a3f0-494b-44f7-aeb4-c51771263175/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/samagra/deploys)

**Note:** This starter uses [Gatsby v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2018-09-17-gatsby-v2/).

## Prerequisites

- Node (I recommend using v8.2.0 or higher)
- [Gatsby CLI](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/)
- [Netlify CLI](https://github.com/netlify/cli)

## Getting Started (Recommended)

Netlify CMS can run in any frontend web environment, but the quickest way to try it out is by running it on a pre-configured starter site with Netlify. The example here is the Kaldi coffee company template (adapted from [One Click Hugo CMS](https://github.com/netlify-templates/one-click-hugo-cms)). Use the button below to build and deploy your own copy of the repository:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms&amp;stack=cms"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify"></a>

After clicking that button, you’ll authenticate with GitHub and choose a repository name. Netlify will then automatically create a repository in your GitHub account with a copy of the files from the template. Next, it will build and deploy the new site on Netlify, bringing you to the site dashboard when the build is complete. Next, you’ll need to set up Netlify’s Identity service to authorize users to log in to the CMS.

### Access Locally

Pulldown a local copy of the Github repository Netlify created for you, with the name you specified in the previous step
```
$ git clone https://github.com/[GITHUB_USERNAME]/[REPO_NAME].git
$ cd [REPO_NAME]
$ yarn
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

This uses the new [Netlify Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=netlifycms&utm_campaign=devex) CLI feature to serve any functions you have in the `lambda` folder.

To test the CMS locally, you'll need run a production build of the site:

```
$ npm run build
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

### Media Libraries (installed, but optional)

Media Libraries have been included in this starter as a default. If you are not planning to use `Uploadcare` or `Cloudinary` in your project, you **can** remove them from module import and registration in `src/cms/cms.js`. Here is an example of the lines to comment or remove them your project.

```javascript
import CMS from 'netlify-cms-app'
// import uploadcare from 'netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare'
// import cloudinary from 'netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary'

import AboutPagePreview from './preview-templates/AboutPagePreview'
import BlogPostPreview from './preview-templates/BlogPostPreview'
import ProductPagePreview from './preview-templates/ProductPagePreview'
import IndexPagePreview from './preview-templates/IndexPagePreview'

// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(uploadcare);
// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(cloudinary);

CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('index', IndexPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('about', AboutPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('products', ProductPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('blog', BlogPostPreview)
```

## Getting Started (Without Netlify)

```
$ gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME] https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms/
$ cd [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME]
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

### Setting up the CMS

Follow the [Netlify CMS Quick Start Guide](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/quick-start/#authentication) to set up authentication, and hosting.

## Debugging

Windows users might encounter `node-gyp` errors when trying to npm install.
To resolve, make sure that you have both Python 2.7 and the Visual C++ build environment installed.

```
npm config set python python2.7
npm install --global --production windows-build-tools
```

[Full details here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp 'NPM node-gyp page')

MacOS users might also encounter some errors, for more info check [node-gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp). We recommend using the latest stable node version.

## Purgecss

This plugin uses [gatsby-plugin-purgecss](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-purgecss/) and [bulma](https://bulma.io/). The bulma builds are usually ~170K but reduced 90% by purgecss.

# CONTRIBUTING

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small. Before contributing,
please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

feat:Environment Variable create for MAILCHIMP url

README.md, after:

## Front end for Samagra | Transforming Governance.

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/5db5a3f0-494b-44f7-aeb4-c51771263175/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/samagra/deploys)

**Note:** This starter uses [Gatsby v2](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2018-09-17-gatsby-v2/).

## Prerequisites

- Node (I recommend using v8.2.0 or higher)
- [Gatsby CLI](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/)
- [Netlify CLI](https://github.com/netlify/cli)

## Getting Started (Recommended)

Netlify CMS can run in any frontend web environment, but the quickest way to try it out is by running it on a pre-configured starter site with Netlify. The example here is the Kaldi coffee company template (adapted from [One Click Hugo CMS](https://github.com/netlify-templates/one-click-hugo-cms)). Use the button below to build and deploy your own copy of the repository:

<a href="https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms&amp;stack=cms"><img src="https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg" alt="Deploy to Netlify"></a>

After clicking that button, you’ll authenticate with GitHub and choose a repository name. Netlify will then automatically create a repository in your GitHub account with a copy of the files from the template. Next, it will build and deploy the new site on Netlify, bringing you to the site dashboard when the build is complete. Next, you’ll need to set up Netlify’s Identity service to authorize users to log in to the CMS.

### Access Locally

Pulldown a local copy of the Github repository Netlify created for you, with the name you specified in the previous step
```
$ git clone https://github.com/[GITHUB_USERNAME]/[REPO_NAME].git
$ cd [REPO_NAME]
$ yarn
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```
## Environment Variables Setup

This project requires certain environment variables to be set up for development and production. These variables are stored in `.env` files.

### Step 1: Create `.env` Files

In the root of your project, create two files: `.env.development` and `.env.production`.

### Example `.env.development`:

```env
GATSBY_MAILCHIMP_URL=https://example.dev-subscribe-url.com

This uses the new [Netlify Dev](https://www.netlify.com/products/dev/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=netlifycms&utm_campaign=devex) CLI feature to serve any functions you have in the `lambda` folder.

To test the CMS locally, you'll need run a production build of the site:

```
$ npm run build
$ netlify dev # or ntl dev
```

### Media Libraries (installed, but optional)

Media Libraries have been included in this starter as a default. If you are not planning to use `Uploadcare` or `Cloudinary` in your project, you **can** remove them from module import and registration in `src/cms/cms.js`. Here is an example of the lines to comment or remove them your project.

```javascript
import CMS from 'netlify-cms-app'
// import uploadcare from 'netlify-cms-media-library-uploadcare'
// import cloudinary from 'netlify-cms-media-library-cloudinary'

import AboutPagePreview from './preview-templates/AboutPagePreview'
import BlogPostPreview from './preview-templates/BlogPostPreview'
import ProductPagePreview from './preview-templates/ProductPagePreview'
import IndexPagePreview from './preview-templates/IndexPagePreview'

// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(uploadcare);
// CMS.registerMediaLibrary(cloudinary);

CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('index', IndexPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('about', AboutPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('products', ProductPagePreview)
CMS.registerPreviewTemplate('blog', BlogPostPreview)
```

## Getting Started (Without Netlify)

```
$ gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME] https://github.com/netlify-templates/gatsby-starter-netlify-cms/
$ cd [SITE_DIRECTORY_NAME]
$ npm run build
$ npm run serve
```

### Setting up the CMS

Follow the [Netlify CMS Quick Start Guide](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/quick-start/#authentication) to set up authentication, and hosting.

## Debugging

Windows users might encounter `node-gyp` errors when trying to npm install.
To resolve, make sure that you have both Python 2.7 and the Visual C++ build environment installed.

```
npm config set python python2.7
npm install --global --production windows-build-tools
```

[Full details here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-gyp 'NPM node-gyp page')

MacOS users might also encounter some errors, for more info check [node-gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp). We recommend using the latest stable node version.

## Purgecss

This plugin uses [gatsby-plugin-purgecss](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-purgecss/) and [bulma](https://bulma.io/). The bulma builds are usually ~170K but reduced 90% by purgecss.

# CONTRIBUTING

Contributions are always welcome, no matter how large or small. Before contributing,
please read the [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
